SANCTIONS AND ACTIONS AFFECTING LICENSURE (FY 2025)
DAVIS, Mary Elizabeth – Suspension for thirty days on July 9, 2024, effective nunc pro tunc to
July 29, 2023, stayed under the conditions imposed by the Supreme Court of Maryland, in a
reciprocal action from the District of Columbia for representing a client involving a conflict of
interest and engaging in conduct that is prejudicial to the administration of justice. The Respondent
failed to obtain her client’s informed consent regarding a conflict of interest.
ELAN, Evan Stuart – Disbarment by Consent on November 25, 2024, effective immediately, in a
reciprocal action from Virginia and the District of Columbia, for failing to represent his clients
competently and diligently, failing to adequately communicate with his clients, failing to take steps
to protect his clients’ interests upon termination of the representation, and engaging in conduct
involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation.
The Respondent abandoned
representation of multiple clients.
FRANKLIN, Jamel R. – Disbarment by Consent on December 23, 2024, effective immediately,
for committing a criminal act that reflects adversely on his honesty, trustworthiness, or fitness as
an attorney; and engaging in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation.
The Respondent pled guilty to one count of perjury in violation of Maryland Code, Criminal Law
§ 9-101; and one count of theft over $100,000.00 in violation of Maryland Code, Criminal Law
§ 7-104.
GALLAGHER, Michele Yvonne – Indefinite Suspension by Consent on September 23, 2024,
effective immediately, with reinstatement conditioned on the satisfactory report of a healthcare
professional, for committing a criminal act that reflects adversely on her honesty, trustworthiness,
or fitness as an attorney; engaging in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or
misrepresentation; and engaging in conduct that is prejudicial to the administration of justice. The
Respondent entered an Alford Plea to one count of conspiracy to commit second degree assault.
GLENN, IV, Robert Edwin – Disbarment by Consent on July 29, 2024, effective immediately, in
a reciprocal action from West Virginia, Virginia, and the District of Columbia, for engaging in
conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation. Over the course of eight years,
the Respondent improperly received over $35,000.00 from his former law firm as reimbursement
for expenses incurred while representing a client. The Respondent used the funds for personal
expenses unrelated to client matters.
GORMLEY, Brian R. – Reprimand by Consent on December 19, 2024, for representing clients
involving a conflict of interest and failing to uphold his responsibilities as a partner in a law firm.
Without the informed consent of each potentially affected client, the Respondent represented
clients in a matter where the position to be taken by the clients was adverse to a position taken or
to be taken by another client in the same matter, even though the second client was represented by
different counsel. The Respondent, as a partner in his law firm, failed to make reasonable efforts
to ensure his firm had in effect measures giving reasonable assurance that the conduct of the
lawyers in the firm conformed to the Rules of Professional Conduct, specifically by failing to
ensure conflicts were screened when opening new cases.

GUNDLACH, Phillip L. – Commission Reprimand on July 8, 2024, for failing to adequately
communicate with his client, failing to take steps to protect his client’s interest upon termination
of the representation, and failing to maintain candor to the tribunal. The Respondent represented
a client in a divorce matter and sent correspondence to his client via mail to his home address and
via email despite learning his client had become incarcerated. The client, therefore, was not aware
of the Respondent’s motion to withdraw his representation. The client received a default judgment
as a result of his failure to appear at a court date that occurred while he was incarcerated.
HARDY, II, James Roger – Suspension by Consent for 120 days on July 25, 2024, effective nunc
pro tunc to October 25, 2022, in a reciprocal action from Connecticut, for violating the State of
Connecticut Rules of Professional Conduct. The Respondent failed to represent his clients
diligently; failed to adequately communicate with his clients; collected unreasonable fees; failed
to return unearned fees upon the termination of representation; failed to reasonably expedite
litigation; engaged in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation; and
engaged in conduct that is prejudicial to the administration of justice. The Respondent also
attempted to settle a grievance claim with a former client without advising the client in writing of
the desirability of seeking the advice of independent legal counsel and providing a reasonable
opportunity to seek same. On July 25, 2024, the Supreme Court of Maryland ordered the
Respondent’s reinstatement, effective nunc pro tunc to February 23, 2023.
KOH, Francis Huisuk – Suspension by Consent for six months on August 27, 2024, effective nunc
pro tunc to May 17, 2024, in a reciprocal action from Virginia, for failing to represent his clients
competently and diligently; failing to properly supervise a non-attorney assistant; engaging in
conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation; and engaging in conduct that is
prejudicial to the administration of justice. The Respondent failed to provide competent and
diligent representation in representing foreign domiciled trademark applicants before the United
States Patent and Trademark Office.
MAHONEY, John P. – Suspension by Consent for sixty days on September 25, 2024, effective
nunc pro tunc to July 13, 2024, with all but thirty days stayed in favor of one year of probation
with the terms imposed by the District of Columbia Court of Appeals, in a reciprocal action from
the District of Columbia, for failing to adequately communicate with his clients, failing to take
steps to protect his clients’ interests upon termination of the representation, and failing to properly
supervise attorneys. In six client matters, the Respondent failed to take reasonable steps to ensure
two subordinate attorneys complied with their ethical duties to clients and failed to take reasonable
remedial action to avoid or mitigate the consequences of the subordinates’ conduct. In four of the
matters, the Respondent personally failed to respond to his clients’ reasonable requests for
information, and in three of the matters, the Respondent personally failed to protect his clients’
interests as the representation was ending.
MAYERS, Sheila Bridget Thurmond – Temporary Suspension on September 23, 2024, in a
reciprocal action from the District of Columbia and Virginia, pending further Order from the
Supreme Court of Maryland.

O’NEILL, Brian David – Disbarred on September 24, 2024, effective immediately, in a reciprocal
action from the District of Columbia, for committing a criminal act that reflects adversely on his
honesty, trustworthiness, or fitness as an attorney; engaging in conduct involving dishonesty,
fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation; and engaging in conduct that is prejudicial to the administration
of justice. In the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, the Respondent pled
guilty to two counts of wire fraud.
WALDECK, Robert P. – Disbarred on July 25, 2024, effective immediately, in a reciprocal action
from the District of Columbia, for failing to represent his clients diligently; failing to adequately
communicate with his clients; failing to safekeep funds in an attorney trust account; failing to take
steps to protect his clients’ interests upon termination of the representation; engaging in conduct
involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation; and engaging in conduct that is
prejudicial to the administration of justice. While representing five different clients in employment
matters, the Respondent intentionally misappropriated trust funds, commingled client funds with
funds in his operating account, recklessly failed to determine the amount held in trust for each
client, delayed settlement negotiations, failed to meet litigation deadlines, and abandoned his
clients.
WHITTED, Stephen E. – Indefinite Suspension on August 1, 2024, effective immediately, for
filing frivolous pleadings; engaging in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or
misrepresentation; and engaging in conduct that is prejudicial to the administration of justice. The
Respondent repeatedly filed retaliatory, meritless claims against his ex-wife, her new husband, her
attorneys, and judges who ruled against him; filed meritless appeals; repeated failed arguments;
and ignored court rulings.
YEATMAN, Francis Edward – Disbarred on November 22, 2024, for failing to represent his
clients competently and diligently, failing to adequately communicate with his clients, knowingly
failing to respond to Bar Counsel, and engaging in conduct that is prejudicial to the administration
of justice. The Respondent failed to communicate with, and effectively abandoned, his clients in
two separate estate matters. In addition, in connection with Bar Counsel’s investigation, the
Respondent failed to respond to requests for information by Bar Counsel.

